# CMSIS Overview

Before developing the UART driver, we need to understand CMSIS.

CMSIS files are provided by ARM and STMicroelectronics as part of the STM32 software package. These files contain peripheral register structures, interrupt definitions, memory addresses, and helper functions that allow us to access hardware peripherals using readable C syntax.

CMSIS provides standardized definitions for:

* Cortex-M core peripherals
* Processor registers
* Interrupt numbers
* Peripheral register structures
* Memory mapped peripheral addresses

In STM32 projects, CMSIS definitions are available through device specific header files such as:

```c
#include "stm32f4xx.h"
```

These header files contain:

### Peripheral Register Structures

CMSIS defines structures representing peripheral registers.

Example:

```c
USART2->DR
```

Here:

* `USART2` is a pointer to the USART2 peripheral register block.
* `DR` is the Data Register member of that structure.

Conceptually:

```c
USART2->DR
```

means:

```text
Access the USART2 Data Register
```

---

### Peripheral Base Address Mapping

CMSIS maps peripheral base addresses to C pointers.

Example:

```c
#define USART2 ((USART_TypeDef *) USART2_BASE)
```

This allows direct access to hardware registers using C syntax.

Examples:

```c
GPIOA->MODER
USART2->CR1
USART2->DR
RCC->AHB1ENR
DMA1_Stream6->CR
```

---

### Interrupt Definitions

CMSIS defines interrupt numbers using enumerations.

Example:

```c
USART2_IRQn
DMA1_Stream6_IRQn
```

These identify specific interrupts within the NVIC.

Example:

```c
NVIC_EnableIRQ(USART2_IRQn);
```

This enables the USART2 interrupt in the Nested Vector Interrupt Controller (NVIC).

---

### Benefits of CMSIS

* Standardized interface across Cortex-M devices
* Simplifies register access
* Provides readable code
* Eliminates manual address calculations
* Supports interrupt management through NVIC functions

Throughout this project, CMSIS is used extensively for accessing peripheral registers, configuring interrupts, and interacting with STM32 hardware using registerl evel programming.
